How to prove you are a human in an online transaction while maintaining control over data shared with third parties?

Data Security problemt – centralized institutions collecting/tracking data and fail to secure them (identity data leaks). 
Prediction algorithms are being improved and the data stream that is available is currently not controllable by individual, it is 
derived from their online presence without consent. Decentralizing security concerns must be done in such a way that breaking 
any single component of the system will not interfere with correct working of the rest of the system.

Monetization problem – despite the increasing number of proprietary and Open source efforts, there is no comprehensive solution 
to security. Significant part (not entire) of the solutions ecosystem need to be built under free software license paradigm, 
encouraging peer review and open cooperation with everyone. Free definition of the protocol is clearly needed.

Exclusion problem – each of available solutions being currently developed within certain perspective and carry its bias towards 
the society. Successful solution would be inclusive towards people in underdeveloped regions that lack any Authority verified 
identification. Such solution will help them with migration requirements (women and children are refused refugee status because 
they lack any official ID), or be instrumental in participation in healthcare, or online aspect of the freedom of speech. 
Same solution should benefit every person on the planet, regardless of how much resources they own. It must be convenient and 
objectively preferable for use on social media, authority verification, e-commerce/retail, travel and voting.

Distributed Paranoia problem – the solution must be anti-paranoid, in a sense that it will be demonstratively designed in such a way, 
that no part of the system or entity interacting with the system carries data in such form that is useful for successful identification 
of a human being, therefore removing the incentive of breaking each individual system.

One-way-validation problem – such validation should be performed that can accurately identify a match between partial data and a source 
of biometric data (human body) when confronted. Validation algorithm shall need only partial information(metadata) which is stored in 
such a way, that knowledge of these patterns itself is not enough to recreate the unique biometric dataset. With a fingerprint metadata, 
validation system should have enough information available to perform a test on an biometric input (finger) presented to it whether it 
matches the pattern of the original data or not. This data should be anti-paranoid in such a way, that owning this data alone does not 
reveal person’s identity, but can be merely used for one way verification as described above.

Individualistic data storage problem – in centralized data solutions presented (banks, corporations, blockchain startups), once the 
database is broken into, attacker gains access over all the users subscribed to such centralized service. It must be unfeasible to 
break all records at once. Breaking the identity of single person must require half the effort than of breaking the identity of two people.

The blockchain problem – in 2009, a new technical capability was created: trustless, decentralized consensus. It should be clear that 
certain attributes of this technology are going to be instrumental for the full scale digital identity solution. It is however not needed 
to build new monetized blockchains that fail in comparison with existing consensus robustness because they lack the most important 
attributes. Also, decentralizing personal data requires the solution not to entirely depend on any part of it’s ecosystem. 
Volume-wise, only insignificant amount of transaction should be recorded on public ledger. Identity on the ledger must be publicly 
visible but useless in itself to identify the person who controls it. Majority of our online interactions does not need to directly 
touch any public ledger or invoke consensus rules. All the functionality that is required for a reasonably secure Proof of Concept 
stage is already available on bitcoin’s main net.

Scaling problem – successfully adoptable solution must scale itself. There shall be no single element in the eco-system that should 
require scaling. A working solution shall be designed in such a way that there is nothing to scale.
